# Developer Advocacy Roles and Responsibilities

As a Developer Advocate, you will be responsible for outward-facing
technical activity.  This could be getting the word out, helping a
user through a problem, or presenting the latest release notes to an
existing customer.

You will connect with other developers and SREs, contribute to open
source, and share your work externally about cutting-edge technologies
on conference panels, meetups, in contributed articles and on
blogs. Your work will foster a community inspired by MayaData and will
drive our strategy around developer love and MayaData’s participation
in the open source ecosystem.  You will collaborate and connect with
communities that love technology and open source as much as we do. You
will interact with developers across the globe at conferences as well
as online, and co-creates with the open source community on the most
impactful projects in the ecosystem. Our focus is on generating
awareness about MayaData by rolling up our sleeves, contributing to
the ecosystem, and enabling others to become evangelists outside the
company as well. Not afraid to be hands-on, you might write sample
code, author client libraries, and work with strategic MayaData
partners such as the Heroes, users, and customers to spark and engage
our developer and ops communities.

You will work with prospects to architect an OpenEBS / Litmus based
solution for their persistent app needs.  You'll often set these
systems up in advance using our cloud resources, and/or work with the
prospect to plan and conduct Proof of Concept tests.  You will help
the prospect vet the architecture against their application and
battery of tests.  You will work with the customer and with
Engineering to find and fix any defects preventing a production
deployment.  Your troubleshooting skills and experience will be
essential in helping the customer through sometimes unfamiliar
landscape of Kubernetes, ultimately validating app functionality, and
achieving the technical win.

Customers need to be constantly kept up-to-date on the latest features
in the OpenEBS ecosystem and the latest products from MayaData.
Developer Advocates proactively schedule training sessions, new
release TOIs, lunch-and-learns.  You may be called upon to write
software or othter code as a deliverable for Professional Services
projects, and sometimes help with support activities like upgrades and
migrations.  You will always be expected to feed back the customer's
input to PM and Engineering.

As a Developer Advocate you will do what it takes to get the customer
to a functional and well maintained prod deployment.

## How we measure ourselves?
- Increased awareness generated by our efforts (eye balls)
  - Current google search for openebs returns about 2170 results, this
    will increase as we are successful.
- Community motivated by our efforts (community
  involvement). 
  - Analytics for community Slack should show increasing Weekly active
    members.
  - Contributors to OpenEBS (as well as stars) should increase.
  - Invitations to community efforts should increase.
- Increase in registrations to the user portal.
- Increase in retained clusters.
- Reduced time to conversation on OpenEBS lists.
- High customer service survey marks.
- 360 degree review with direct management, direct peers, indirect
  peers, and customers.
- Bookings.

## Responsibilities
- Reach out to users.
- Respond to tech questions on social channels (OpenEBS Slack,
  Twitter, Reddit, etc).
- Lead the conversation around the latest technology advancements and
  best practices in the developer and ops community at in person and
  online venues.
- Contribute to relevant open source projects, foundations, and SIGs
  in order to give MayaData a voice and front seat access to the
  developments in [our space of interest](#specialities).
- Channel information back to product and engineering about your
  learnings; broker conversations with engineering and support as
  appropriate.
- Reach mass developers by creating unique content that educates the
  ecosystem and brings reflected glory to MayaData.
- Book online and in-person meetings with prospects to dive deeper
  into their projects.
- Conduct interviews with media via phone, podcasts, video and
  in-person.
- Help users troubleshoot problems and report bugs.
- Add feature requests and provide feedback on existing features
- Be a force in the community and never compromise on the tech!
- Have fun :^)

## Dependencies

- Marketing oversees the overall content that MayaData publishes.
  Developer Advocates might create content in service to marketing,
  but the ultimate use of that content is in Marketing's hands.
- Sales is responsible for getting Developer Advocates in front of
  prospects.  Prospects / deals should probably be at stage 3 before
  engaging DA, and DA is specifically responsible for stages 3 and 4,
  and partially responsible (along with the Account Rep) for getting
  the deal through stage 6.
- Support is the lifeblood of our online presence.  DA counts on
  having a support team that is able to respond first to customer
  queries and problems.  DA can assist in sensitive situations, but
  support has to be able to own the problem resolution and solution
  rollout.
- Engineering provides the raw materials we use, and DAs work with Eng
  to get them info and feedback about new features both released and
  in-progress.  DAs are responsible for making sure PM and Eng know
  what the customers need from a feature, what customers want to use
  it, and what they think of it after they try it.


## Specialities

### Infrastructure
- Experience using both on-premise and cloud-based infrastructure
  automation.
- Understanding of storage, from blocks on disk, through drivers and
  filesystems, and into tables and rows of data consumed by a
  cloud-native application suite.

### Kubernetes
- Experience using container technologies in general and Kubernetes in
  particular.
- Contributor to Kubernetes or related projects such as Helm, CSI,
  OPA.
- Contributor to Container Runtimes, Micro VMs and related
  technologies.

### CI/CD
- Experience running or building CI/CD systems.
- Contributor to a CI/CD project such as GitLab runners, Tekton,
  Spinnaker, Jenkinsl


### MayaData - OpenEBS and Director
- Deep knowledge of the MayaData Storage product, particularly its
  OpenEBS and Director.
- Ability to create engaging demos and other content based on MayaData
  that tell a story.

### Machine Learning
- Experience running or building Machine Learning systems
- Contributor to a AI/ML CNCF projects such as KubeFlow

### Ecosystem
- Deep connections in the cloud native ecosystem with demonstrated
  involvement in community events and projects
- Experience driving influencers to events, content, and other
  experiences
- Ability and experience nurturing community members and convert them
  to champions
- Partnerships experience to push relevant technical initiatives
  through the finish line keeping in mind holistic campaigns such as
  KubeCon events

## Developer Advocate Levels

### Developer Advocate Requirements
- In-depth industry experience building software and contributing to
  open source in the CNCF ecosystem
- Specializes in at least 3 [area listed above](#specialities)
- At least 2 years of experience giving talks and developing demos,
  webinars, videos, and other technical content, preferably to large
  (300+ audiences)
- Meaningful social presence with engaged followers (preferably 10k+)
- Ability to manage the fast moving conference schedule with it’s CFP
  deadlines and show dates
- Self-directed and work with minimal supervision.
- Outstanding written and verbal communications skills with the
  ability to explain and translate complex technology concepts into
  simple and intuitive communications.
- Ability to travel up to 40% of the time
- Ability to connect with users in their preferred times. 
- Ability to use OpenEBS, Director, Litmus to enable Data Agility
  problems that our users have in adopting Stateful workloads in
  Kubernetes.
- Experience running MayaData or Kubernetes workshops in end-user
  companies
- Experience serving as a media spokesperson
- Hold positions of influence in open source projects and
  organizations such as SIG leads, maintainer status, author status
- Experience giving talks and developing demos, webinars, videos, and
  other technical content as keynote speaker
- Content generated is published on platforms like Forbes, NewStack
  and so forth.
- You share our values and work in accordance with those values.

## Hiring Process
- Candidates for this position can expect the hiring process to follow
  the order below. Please keep in mind that candidates can be declined
  from the position at any stage of the process. To learn more about
  someone who may be conducting the interview, find her/his job title
  on our team page.
- Qualified candidates will be invited to schedule a screening call
  with one of our Global Recruiters.
- Candidates will then be invited to schedule a 45 minute interview
  with the hiring manager, our Director of Developer Advocacy Team
- Candidates will then be invited to do a panel presentation on a
  topic of their choice. There will be 20-30 minutes for the
  presentation, followed by 20-30 minutes for Q&A afterwards where the
  panel can ask the candidate questions and vice versa. Panelist
  interviewers will be the Directors from Solution Engineering,
  Partner and Product Management, Engineering.
- Finally, our CEO and/or VP Marketing may choose to conduct a final
  interview.
- Successful candidates will subsequently be made an offer via email.

